# Capstone-Project-of-Udacity-s-Data-Scientist-Nano-Degree-Program
This is my Capstone Project of Udacity Data Scientist Nano Degree Program. It aims to create a customer segmentation report for Arvato Financial Solutions.Project contains three major steps: Customer Segmentation, Supervised Learning Model and Kaggle Competition. Data has been provided by Bertelmans Arvato: Data of customers of a mail-order sales company in Germany and the data of the general population in Germany had been analyzed. To perform customer segmentation; to identify which part of the population best represents or describe the company's customer profile, unsupurvised Machine Learning techniques were applied. Afterwards, a supervised learning model have been created to predict which individuals most likely to become customers of the company through a dataset having demographic information of targets of the marketing campaign of the company.


### Table of Contents

1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Project Motivation](#motivation)
3. [File Descriptions](#files)
4. [Results](#results)
5. [Licensing, Authors, and Acknowledgements](#licensing)

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>

Below libraries are required in execution of the codes that i supplied in Jupyter Notebook.<br>
   * Pandas
   * Numpy
   * Matplotlib
   * Seaborn
   * Sklearn

## Project Motivation<a name="motivation"></a>

In this project, i tried to answer the question of "How can a mail-order company acquire new customers in an efficient way?" by completing below three steps :

1. Customer Segmentation: Attributes of customers and general population will be analyzed and unsupurvised learning methods to be used in order to create customer segments. Before this step, Exploratory Data Analysis will be conducted to understand, clean and scale the datas.

2. Supervised Learning Model : A machine learning model to be build which predicts whether or not each individual will respond to the campaign through a third dataset with attributes from targets of a mail order campaign.

3. Kaggle Competition : After chosing a model in previous step, i will use it to make predictions on the campaign data as part of a Kaggle Competition. I will rank the individuals by how likely they are to convert to being a customer, and see my modeling skills measure up against your fellow students.

## File Descriptions <a name="files"></a>

There are 3 notebooks available here to showcase work related to the above motivation.  Each of the notebooks is exploratory in searching through the data pertaining to above motivations showcased by the notebook title.  Markdown cells were used to assist in walking through the thought process for individual steps.  

Notebooks:
1. [Part0_Get_to_know_data.ipynb](https://github.com/xlsxl/Capstone-Project-of-Udacity-s-Data-Science-Nano-Degree-Program/blob/main/Part0_Get_to_know_data.ipynb) : It contains the exploratory data analysis studies.

2. [Part1_Customer_Segmentation.ipynb](https://github.com/xlsxl/Capstone-Project-of-Udacity-s-Data-Science-Nano-Degree-Program/blob/main/Part1_Customer_Segmentation.ipynb) : It contains customer segmentation study.

3. [Part2_Part3_ML Model and Kaggle.ipynb](https://github.com/xlsxl/Capstone-Project-of-Udacity-s-Data-Science-Nano-Degree-Program/blob/main/Part2_Part3_ML%20Model%20and%20Kaggle.ipynb) : It contains Machine Learning Model building and Kaggle Competition studies. 

There are four data files used in this project:

- `Udacity_AZDIAS_052018.csv`: Demographics data for the general population of Germany; 891 211 persons (rows) x 366 features (columns).
- `Udacity_CUSTOMERS_052018.csv`: Demographics data for customers of a mail-order company; 191 652 persons (rows) x 369 features (columns).
- `Udacity_MAILOUT_052018_TRAIN.csv`: Demographics data for individuals who were targets of a marketing campaign; 42 982 persons (rows) x 367 (columns).
- `Udacity_MAILOUT_052018_TEST.csv`: Demographics data for individuals who were targets of a marketing campaign; 42 833 persons (rows) x 366 (columns).

There is also [kaggle.csv](https://github.com/xlsxl/Capstone-Project-of-Udacity-s-Data-Science-Nano-Degree-Program/blob/main/kaggle.csv) file which is generated by a code in last notebook for submission of Kaggle Competition.

## Results<a name="results"></a>

The main findings of the study can be found at the post available [here](https://medium.com/@ozkanoztork/identifying-potential-customers-using-machine-learning-9dd37bf89be5).

## Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements<a name="licensing"></a>

This project was completed as part of the Udacity Data Scientist Nanodegree Program. The data was originally sourced by Udacity from Arvato Financial Solutions, a Bertelsmann subsidiary. Thus files are not available publicly as dataset are highly proprietary.
